---
title: Variables
description: Learn about variables in Cambo.
navigation: 
  icon: i-lucide-code-xml
---


## Declaration & Initialization
```kh [syntax]
# declare
type variable_name;
```

```kh [syntax]
# assign a value
variable_name = value;
```

```kh [syntax]
# declare + initialize
type variable_name = value;
```

::accordion

:::accordion-item{label="What is the difference between declaration & initialization??" icon="i-lucide-circle-help"}
- Declaring a variable means creating a variable by specifying its name and type, without assigning a value to it, `int number;`. 
- Initializing a variable means assigning a value to a varible for the first time, `number = 3;`
:::
::

> If a variable is declared without initialization, the compiler automatically assigns a default value to it. Default values for each corresponding type are listed below
> 
| type               | default value |
| :----------------- | :------------ |
| integer            | `0`           |
| floating-point     | `0.0`         |
| pointer            | `null`        |
| character          | `'\0'`        |
| string             | `""`, `'\0'`  |
| boolean            | `false`       |
| regular expression | `\\`          |
| enum               | `none`*       |
| struct             | `none`*       |

## Basic types
In Cambo, there are many different kinds of [data types](/core-features/datatypes), however here are some basic ones:
::field-group

::field{name="int"}
Stores integers, whole number, such as 1975 or -1975.
::

::field{name="float"}
Stores floating point numbers, with decimals, such as 19.70 or - 19.70.
::

::field{name="bool"}
Stores values with two state: true or false.
::

::field{name="char"}
Stores single characters, such as 'A', or 'a'.
::

::field{name="string"}
Stores text, such as "Khmer", strings are surrounded by double quote `""`.
::

::

::note
**string** is not originally a primitive data type, it's a built-in struct in Cambo. 
See [data types](/core-features/datatypes) page. 
::

## Example


*1. Declare & initialize:*
```kh
int main(){
  
  int number = 3; 
  float pi = 3.14;
  bool running = false;
  char symbol = 'A';
  string text = "hello, world!";
  
  return 0;
}
```

*2. Declare without initialization:*
```kh
int main(){

  int number;
  print(number); # output: 0

  bool running;
  print(running); # output: false

  return 0;
}
```


*3. Declare then initilialize later:*
```kh
int main(){

  int number; 
  number = 3;

  return 0;
}
```
To be precise, when a variable is declared without an explicit initilizer, the compiler automatically assigns a default value behind the scenes. As a result, initializing a value later is always an explicit reassignment, not an initial initialization. This means that initialization only occurs at the point of declaration.  
As shown in third example above, the variable `number` is already initialized to `0` at the declaration line `int number;` by the compiler. 
The line `number = 3;` is simply a reassignment of the variable `number` to the value of `3`.  
**However**, the compiler may optimize this by initializing `number` directly to `3`, removing the default initialization to `0`.

::tip
Although variables have default values, explictly initialization is always a good practice.
::


## `define` keyword
`define` is a keyword used to create an alias of a particular type, allowing developers to custom meaningful name for some data types in a program. 


```kh [syntax]
define new_type = existed_type;
```

**Example:**
```kh
define i8 = int8;
define i16 = int16;
define i32 = int32;
define i64 = int64;
define i128 = int128;
```
Aliasing works for any data types, including both built-in and user-defined types.

Aliasing becomes really useful when you want to simplify a long complex type name.
```kh

define DictSS = const Dict<string, string>;
DictSS data1 = {
  # code ...
}

DictSS data2 = {
  # code ...
}
```
