---
title: Comment
description: Comment your beautiful code! 
navigation:
  icon: i-lucide-hash
---

In computer programming, a comment is a human-readable note written in the source code, generally used as an explanation or a documentation. It  is specifically marked so that the compiler ignores it, meaning it has no effect on how the program runs. In cambo, comments are indicated by the `#` prefix and entend to the end of the line. This means you can start writing a comment anywhere on a line, and everything that comes after `#` is treated as part of the comment.

```kh
# comment
```
By design choice, the language only supports a single-line comment. And block comment or multi-line comment are not provided unfortunately. The reason why block comments are not supported is because they can be inserted in the middle of code on a single line (e.g., `int /*comment*/ var = 0;`, in some languages), which can reduce readability. However, it's not possible to do so with a single-line comment.


**Example:** 
```kh
# this is the main function, where code is executed
int main(string args[]){

  print("hello, world\n"); # comment # still a comment

  return 0; # exit program with status 0 
}
```

::tip
As a good practice, comments should be used in the following cases:
- **Explanation**: Clarifies the why behind very complex logic or implementation decisions.
- **Documentation**: Provides metadata or detailed information about specific code.
- **Task Tracking**: Mark areas that require future work, commonly using tags such as `# TODO:` or `# FIXME:`.
- **Debugging**: Temporarily disable specific lines of code by commenting them out without removing them.
::