---
title: Pointers
description: Pointer Pointee
navigation:
  icon: i-lucide-code-xml
---

A pointer is simply a variable that stores the memory address of another 
variable. Instead of holding a direct value, it holds the location in the 
computer's memory where the actual value is stored.

```kh [syntax]
type* identifier;
type *identifier;
type * identifier;
```
::note
All are OK as long as the asterisk `*` stays in the middle.
::

## Dereferencing
```kh
int num = 13;
int *ptr = &num;

print("address: {}\n", ptr); # this will output the memory address: 0x3454...
print("value: {}\n", *ptr);  # this will output the value stored at that memeory address: 13 
```
  
## Passing by reference
By default, arguments are passed by value, meaning a copy of the data is passed directly to the function. While this approach ensures that the original data remains unchanged, it can be inefficient for large data structures. In such cases, passing the address of the data is more practical, either to improve performance or to allow the function to modify the original value.

**Example:** 
```kh
void add_one(int* ptr){
  *ptr += 1;
}

int main(){

  int num = 1;
  
  println("before: {}", num); # before: 1
  add_one(num);
  println("after: {}", num); # after: 2

  return 0;
}
```

Notice that in order to pass an argument by reference, the function parameter must be declared as a pointer, allowing the function to recieve and operate on the address of the original data. In the above example, variable `ptr` is declared as an int pointer. The variable `num` is passed normally to the function `add_one`, in this case however, the address of `num` is being served instead of its value.


## Pointer Arithmetic
Unlike normal maths arithmetic, only addition `+` and substraction `-` are allowed 
for pointer arithmetic.

```kh
ptr++;
ptr--;
ptr += n;
ptr -= n;
ptr1 = ptr2 + n;
ptr1 = ptr2 - n;
```

Everything is just the same as C.  
Any changes or new features will be updated later.

