---
title: Introduction
description: Welcome to Cambo's official documentation.
navigation:
  icon: i-lucide-house
seo:
  title: Introduction
  description: Discover how Cambo works.
---


## What is Cambo?

**Cambo** is a high-level, general-purpose, multi-paradigm, programming language designed to be simple yet powerful for a wide range of developments. The language aims to achieve the simplicity of modern high-level languages with a clean and expressive syntax, allowing developers to write code that is both concise and maintainable.
At the same time, **Cambo** preserves the performance characteristics of low-level languages by nature, enabling efficient execution with minimal run-time overhead. As a statically and strongly typed language with a manual memory managment model, it provides a high and predictable performance as well as a fine-grained control over system resources.

With a rich and consistent standard library across platforms, the language follows the "write one, compile anywhere" philosophy, where same code base can be built across different platforms. The source program is compiled directly into native machine code, resulting in a fast executable binary, using a compiler whose back-end is powerd by [LLVM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LLVM).

To be more precise, **Cambo** consists of the following paradigms:
- Procedural Programming (**PP**)
- Simplified Object-Oriented Programming (**SOOP**)
- Functional Programming (**FP**)
- Concurrent Programming (**CP**)
- Generic Programming (**GP**)
- Modular Programming (**MP**)


**Note:** Simplified Object-Oriented Programming (SOOP) is a made-up term for a combination of Class-Based Programming (CBP) & Object-Based Programming (OBP).



## Core Principles
Throughout the life of Cambo, its development and evolution will be guided by the following priciples:
- It must be as simple as possible.
- It must be as powerful as possible.
- It must be robust and secure.
- It must execute with high performance with minimal overhead.
- It must follow "write once, compile anywhere (WOCA)" philosophy.


## Toolchains
**Cambo** also aims to provide a set of tools to streamline the development of a wide range of applications.
The project will consist of the following tools:
- Compiler
- Dependecy manager
- Project build tool
- Test runner
- Linter
- Language Server (LSP)
- Code formatter
- CLI manual browser

::note
Infomation in this page may be changed later.
::

> **_Seriously, one thing to keep in mind is that this langauge is originally just a hobby project, founded by [a guy](https://t.me/kimsreang03) who is fascinated by the elegance of language design. And the project is not meant to replace any exsiting programming language!_**